Add a page to explain 'shared components' and where to find them (#500)
primer/design: content/components/github-shared-components.mdx

---
title: GitHub shared components
description: Application-specific components that are shared by GitHub feature teams but are not in Primer.
---

<Note>This information is only relevant to GitHub staff.</Note>

These components are shared design patterns by GitHub feature teams developing application-specific components. We encourage relying only on Primer components where possible, and not all patterns will be upstreamed to Primer. 

They're shared with other teams by developing them as React components within the `ui/packages/` monorepo. This monorepo, along with the larger monolith, provides a solid foundation with baseline configurations for linting, accessibility scanning using Axe, and Storybook previews.

Engineers building UI components should refer to the guidance on The Hub: [Building reusable UI Components](https://thehub.github.com/epd/engineering/dev-practicals/frontend/common-components/) (only available to GitHub staff).

## Finding these components

GitHub shared components are documented in a private Storybook instance: [ui/packages/ Storybook](https://gh.io/storybook) (only available to GitHub staff).

> Please note that these components will not exist in our Figma component library, [Primer Web](https://www.figma.com/file/GCvY3Qv8czRgZgvl1dG6lp/Primer-Web?type=design&node-id=1406%3A0&mode=design&t=Qi8hXoRhKLLrDhgf-1), until they have been successfully upstreamed into Primer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please note that these components are **owned by the feature teams**, and will not exist in our Figma component library, [Primer Web](https://www.figma.com/file/GCvY3Qv8czRgZgvl1dG6lp/Primer-Web?type=design&node-id=1406%3A0&mode=design&t=Qi8hXoRhKLLrDhgf-1), unless they have been upstreamed into Primer.
```

---
title: GitHub shared components
description: Components that are shared by GitHub feature teams, but are not publicly available in Primer yet.
---

<Note>This information is only relevant to GitHub staff.</Note>

> These components support new design patterns that have been piloted by feature teams outside of Primer. While we encourage relying only on Primer components, we also value exploring new ideas without exhaustive the vetting process required for inclusion in Primer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These components support new design patterns that have been piloted by feature teams outside of Primer. While we encourage relying only on Primer components, we also value exploring new ideas without exhausting the vetting process required for inclusion in Primer.
```

> These components support new design patterns that have been piloted by feature teams outside of Primer. While we encourage relying only on Primer components, we also value exploring new ideas without the exhaustive vetting process required for inclusion in Primer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These components are shared design patterns by GitHub feature teams developing application-specific components. We encourage relying only on Primer components where possible, and not all patterns will be upstreamed to Primer. 

```

Reviewer: Hi @emilybrick and @mperrotti — minor edit to avoid confusion but I'd like to make sure that the:
1. Perception of our processes is respected (language to move away from exhausting/exhaustive toward more stable, trusted, resilient terms) 
2. Clear as day understanding that this is for GitHub application-level patterns that can, but may not be, upstreamed to Primer. It is not a draft state or experimental state. We are not "obscuring" any patterns or components from our Open Source library.

TLDR: can @mperrotti or @emilybrick run this through comparing against the language here? https://thehub.github.com/epd/engineering/dev-practicals/frontend/common-components/

Author: We were already pretty aligned with that post, but I just pushed up a few changes to make the alignment even stronger 💪

For more information about introducing new design patterns, refer to our documentation on [handling new patterns](/guides/contribute/handling-new-patterns).

## Upstreaming to Primer

Should a design pattern from the `ui/packages/` monorepo gain widespread adoption, it becomes a strong candidate for upstreaming into Primer. If your component is data-dependent or feature-specific, our Primer maintainers can help evolve it into a more versatile pattern suitable for multiple use-cases.

For more information on the upstreaming process and how existing components can be included in Primer, refer to our documentation on [upstreaming existing components](/guides/contribute/adding-new-components#upstreaming-to-primer).

## Finding these components

GitHub shared components are documented in a private Storybook instance: [ui/packages/ Storybook](https://gh.io/storybook) (only available to GitHub staff).

> Please note that these components will not exist in our Figma component library, [Primer Web](https://www.figma.com/file/GCvY3Qv8czRgZgvl1dG6lp/Primer-Web?type=design&node-id=1406%3A0&mode=design&t=Qi8hXoRhKLLrDhgf-1) (only available to GitHub staff), until they have been successfully upstreamed into Primer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Please note that these components will not exist in our Figma component library, [Primer Web](https://www.figma.com/file/GCvY3Qv8czRgZgvl1dG6lp/Primer-Web?type=design&node-id=1406%3A0&mode=design&t=Qi8hXoRhKLLrDhgf-1), until they have been successfully upstreamed into Primer.
```

don't think you need that bit
